---
number: 4
sort_number: 004
title: The statutes establishing ERA1 and ERA2 limit eligibility to households based on certain income criteria. How is household income defined for purposes of the ERA? How will income be documented and verified? 
category: docs
---

*Definition of Income*: With respect to each household applying for assistance, grantees may choose between using the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) definition of [“annual income” in 24 CFR 5.6092](https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?rgn=div5&node=24:1.1.1.1.5#se24.1.5_1609) and using adjusted gross income as defined for purposes of reporting under Internal Revenue Service Form 1040 series for individual federal annual income tax purposes.

<span id="4p7">
  *Definition of Area Median Income*: For purposes of ERA1, the area median income for a household is the same as the income limits for families published by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(2), available under the heading for [“Access Individual Income Limits Areas”](https://www.huduser.gov/portal/datasets/il.html)<sup><a href="#fn5" id="ref5">5</a></sup>. When determining area median income with respect to Tribal members, Tribal governments and TDHEs may rely on the methodology authorized by HUD for the Indian Housing Block Grant Program as it pertains to households residing in an Indian area comprising multiple counties (see HUD Office of Native American Programs, Program Guidance No. 2021-01, June 22, 2021).
</span>

*Methods for Income Determination*: The statute establishing ERA1 provides that grantees may determine income eligibility based on either (i) the household’s total income for calendar year 2020, or (ii) sufficient confirmation of the household’s monthly income at the time of application, as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury (Secretary).

If a grantee in ERA1 uses a household’s monthly income to determine eligibility, the grantee should review the monthly income information provided at the time of application and extrapolate over a 12-month period to determine whether household income exceeds 80 percent of area median income. For example, if the applicant provides income information for two months, the grantee should multiply it by six to determine the annual amount. If a household qualifies based on monthly income, the grantee must redetermine the household income eligibility every three months for the duration of assistance.

For ERA2, if a grantee uses the same income determination methodology that it used in ERA1, it is presumed to be in compliance with relevant program requirements; if a grantee chooses to use a different methodology for ERA2 than it used for ERA1, the methodology should be reasonable and consistent with all applicable ERA2 requirements. In addition, if a household is a single family that the grantee determined met the income requirement for eligibility under ERA1, the grantee may consider the household to be eligible under ERA2, unless the grantee becomes aware of any reason the household does not meet the requirements for ERA2. Finally, if multiple families from the same household receive funding under an ERA2 program, the grantee should ensure that there is no duplication of the assistance provided.

<span id="4p4">
*Documentation of Income Determination*: Grantees in ERA1 and ERA2 must have a reasonable basis under the circumstances for determining income. A grantee may support its determination with both a written attestation from the applicant as to household income and also documentation available to the applicant, such as paystubs, W-2s or other wage statements, tax filings, bank statements demonstrating regular income, or an attestation from an employer. In appropriate cases, grantees may rely on an attestation from a caseworker or other professional with knowledge of a household’s circumstances to certify that an applicant’s household income qualifies for assistance.  

Alternatively, a grantee may rely on a written attestation without further documentation of household income from the applicant under three approaches:

  *	*Self-attestation Alone* – In order to provide assistance rapidly, during the public health emergency related to COVID-19 the grantee may rely on a self-attestation of household income without further verification if the applicant confirms in their application or other document that they are unable to provide documentation of their income. If a written attestation without further verification is relied on to document the majority of the applicant’s income, the grantee must reassess the household’s income every three months, by obtaining appropriate documentation or a new self-attestation. Income attestations should specify the monthly or annual income claimed by the household to ensure that the household meets the applicable ERA requirements and to enable appropriate reporting. Under this approach, grantees are encouraged to incorporate self-attestation to demonstrate income eligibility into their application form. Similarly, grantees may rely on self-attestations to demonstrate applicants’ financial hardship and risk of homelessness or housing instability as described above in FAQs 2 and 3 above. Thus, grantees are encouraged to simplify applications to allow for self-attestation for income eligibility during the public health emergency, as well as to allow self-attestation to demonstrate applicants’ financial hardship and risk of homelessness or housing instability as described above in FAQs <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/faqs#2">2</a> and <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/faqs#3">3</a>.
  * <span id="4p5">*Categorical Eligibility* – If an applicant's household income has been verified to be at or below 80 percent of the area median income (for ERA1) or if an applicant's household has been verified as a low-income family as defined in section 3(b) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)) (for ERA2) in connection with another local, state, or federal government assistance program, grantees are permitted to rely on a determination letter from the government agency that verified the applicant’s household income or status as a low-income family, provided that the determination for such program was made on or after January 1, 2020.</span>
  * *Fact-specific proxy*: A grantee may rely on a written attestation from the applicant as to household income if the grantee also uses any reasonable fact-specific proxy for household income, such as reliance on data regarding average incomes in the household’s geographic area.
</span>

Grantees also have discretion to provide waivers or exceptions to this documentation requirement to accommodate disabilities, extenuating circumstances related to the pandemic, or a lack of technological access. In these cases, the grantee is still responsible for making the required determination regarding the applicant’s household income and documenting that determination. Treasury encourages grantees to partner with state unemployment departments or entities that administer federal benefits with income requirements to assist with the verification process, consistent with applicable law.

<sup id="fn5">5 Specifically, 80 percent of area median income is the same as the “low income limit” as published by HUD. For purposes of prioritizing rental assistance as described in <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/faqs#22">FAQ 22</a>, 50 percent of area median income for the household is the same as the "very low-income limit" for the relevant area.</sup>

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/implementation-guidance/changes/" class="era-guidance__datestamp">Updated on August 25, 2021</a>
<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/implementation-guidance/changes/" class="era-guidance__datestamp">Updated on May 7, 2021</a>