---
number: 14
sort_number: 014
title: What data should a grantee collect regarding households to which it provides rental assistance in order to comply with Treasury’s reporting and record keeping requirements?
category: docs
---

Treasury provided interim guidance to ERA1 grantees regarding reporting requirements covering the period January through May 2021. The interim guidance required grantees to report limited data elements for the first quarter of 2021, as well as monthly for April to August. A grantee’s failure to submit required reports to Treasury on a timely basis may constitute a violation of the ERA award terms.

Treasury has provided grantees with additional guidance regarding quarterly reporting requirements. Grantees are required to submit reports in accordance with the additional guidance beginning with the first quarter of 2021 for ERA1 and the second quarter of 2021 for ERA2, with the first reports under the additional guidance being due in October 2021.

ERA1 grantees will be required to submit monthly reports from September to December 2021, which will be consistent with monthly reports that were previously required for April to August.

Treasury’s Office of Inspector General may require the collection of additional information in order to fulfill its oversight and monitoring requirements. <sup><a href="#fn6" id="ref6">6</a></sup> Grantees under ERA1 must comply with the requirement in section 501(g)(4) of Division N of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021, to establish data privacy and security requirements for information they collect; grantees under ERA2 are also encouraged to comply with those requirements. <sup><a href="#fn7" id="ref7">7</a></sup> 

The assistance listing number assigned to the ERA is 21.023.

<sup id="fn6">6 Note that this FAQ is not intended to address all reporting requirements that will apply to the ERA but rather to note for grantees information that they should anticipate needing to collect from households with respect to the provision of rental assistance.</sup>

<sup id="fn7">7 Specifically, the statute establishing ERA1 requires grantees to establish data privacy and security requirements for certain information regarding applicants that (i) include appropriate measures to ensure that the privacy of the individuals and households is protected; (ii) provide that the information, including any personally identifiable information, is collected and used only for the purpose of submitting reports to Treasury; and (iii) provide confidentiality protections for data collected about any individuals who are survivors of intimate partner violence, sexual assault, or stalking.</sup>

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/implementation-guidance/changes/" class="era-guidance__datestamp">Updated on June 24, 2021</a>

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/implementation-guidance/changes/" class="era-guidance__datestamp">Updated on May 7, 2021</a>