---
number: 35
sort_number: 035
title: How can ERA assistance be used to support an eligible household moving to a new home?
category: admin
---

ERA funds may be used to provide assistance to eligible households to cover prospective relocation assistance, rent, and utility or home energy costs, including after an eviction. Treasury encourages grantees to provide prospective support to help ensure housing stability. See <a href="#7">FAQ 7</a> (regarding qualifying relocation expenses) and <a href="#10">FAQ 10</a> (regarding time limits on assistance).

Before moving into a new residence, a tenant may not yet have a rental obligation, as required by the statutes establishing ERA1 and ERA2. In those cases, Treasury encourages grantees to provide otherwise eligible households with an official document specifying the amount of financial assistance under ERA programs that the grantee will pay a landlord on behalf of the household (such as for a security deposit or rent) if the landlord and the household enter into a qualifying lease of at least six months. Such documentation may expire after a certain period, such as 60 to 120 days after the issuance date. Treasury encourages grantees to work with providers of housing stability services to help these households identify housing that meets their needs. For purposes of reporting to Treasury, grantees may consider these commitments to be an obligation of funding until their expiration.

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/implementation-guidance/changes/" class="era-guidance__datestamp">Updated on June 24, 2021</a>

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/implementation-guidance/changes/" class="era-guidance__datestamp">Added on May 7, 2021</a>