---
number: 42
sort_number: 042
title: May a grantee provide ERA funds to another entity for the purpose of making payments more rapidly?
category: admin
---

To speed the delivery of assistance, grantees may enter into a written agreement with a nonprofit organization to establish a payment fund for the sole purpose of delivering assistance using ERA funds while a household’s application remains in process. A grantee may use such a process if:

  *	The process is reserved for situations in which an expedited payment could reasonably be viewed as necessary to prevent an eviction or loss of utility services that precludes employing the grantee’s standard application and payment procedures on a timely basis. 
  *	The nonprofit organization has the requisite financial capacity to manage the ERA funds, such as being a certified community development financial institution.
  *	The nonprofit organization deposits and maintains the ERA funds in a separate account that is not commingled with other funds.
  *	The grantee receives all required application and eligibility documentation within six months.
  *	The nonprofit organization agrees in writing to return to the grantee any assistance that the household was ineligible for or for which the required documentation is not received within six months. 
  *	Any funds not used by the nonprofit organization are ultimately returned to the grantee. 

If a payment made by the nonprofit organization is subsequently found to have been used for an ineligible household or an ineligible expense, or if the required application and eligibility documentation are not timely submitted, the payment will be considered an ineligible use of ERA funds by the grantee. Any administrative expenses attributable to a payment fund should be considered in accordance with <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/faqs#29">FAQ 29</a>.

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/implementation-guidance/changes/" class="era-guidance__datestamp">Added on August 25, 2021</a>
